{"url": "http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2016/06/14/food-waste-cooking-too-much-food_n_10489318.html", "date": "2016-06-15", "content": "If there\u2019s one thing Americans do better than pretty much anyone else, it's putting perfectly good, edible food to waste.\nAn estimated 30-40 percent of food that is grown, harvested, processed and transported to retailers in this country ultimately goes uneaten. And all that wasted food has to go somewhere. Most of it -- an estimated 30 million tons each year, according to the EPA --\u00a0ends up in landfills\u00a0where it emits methane, a greenhouse gas that contributes to climate change.\nThankfully, interest in combatting food waste is perhaps higher than ever -- the U.S. government announced its first-ever national target for cutting waste last year\u00a0-- and the push for a solution is prompting a close examination of many contributing factors. According to a new study published this week in Journal of Food Products Marketing, one key issue has been left off the table.\nResearchers from the Cornell Food and Brand Lab along with the Brazilian Agricultural Research Corporation and the Sao Paulo-based Getulio Vargas Foundation say that key issue is the way that many well-intended families over-prepare food, much of which goes uneaten, as a means of showing affection for their loved ones.\nTo arrive at this conclusion, the researchers analyzed food storage, preparation and disposal behaviors in 20 Upstate New York households with lower-middle class income levels. They observed that the caretakers in the homes -- all of them either mothers or grandmothers -- identified preparing and serving large portions and varieties of food and snacks to their families as a way of showing affection, of being a \u201cgood mother.\u201d\nThese tendencies, the paper\u2019s lead author Dr. Gustavo Porpino explained to The Huffington Post, can contribute significantly to the amount of food most households waste --\u00a0an estimated $640 per household annually -- as well as patterns of overeating and obesity.The leading source of household food waste identified in the paper was leftover cooked food that went uneaten, followed by unused raw vegetables.\nIronically, lower-income households facing significant budgetary constraints may be even more susceptible to the tendency to not only over-prepare food but also to stock more food than they need. This is particularly the case among mothers and other caregivers who have experienced food scarcity in the past, Porpino believes.\n\u201cIt\u2019s reassuring to serve food in large portions,\u201d Porpino told HuffPost by email. \u201cIt has the symbolism of wealth. It is a form to distance themselves from the state of poverty.\u201d\nIn order to address the issue, researchers suggested that informational campaigns centered on positive messages -- particularly the potential financial benefits of reducing food waste in the home -- would be more helpful than negative messages that shame families or simply aim to raise awareness of food waste more generally.\nIn addition, the researchers emphasized the importance of involving food pantries -- which 50 percent of the study\u2019s participants relied on to supplement their family\u2019s food supply -- with efforts to help caregivers manage their food supply at home and meal plan.\nSuch efforts, the researchers write, could not only help these families -- many of whom are Supplemental Nutritional Assistance Program (SNAP) users -- waste less food, but also eat more healthily as they would be less reliant on often-cheaper, processed foods at the end of the month, when SNAP benefits are running low and pantries experience higher demand.\n\u201cNudges can be used to guide them not only to healthy choices, but also to take home portions appropriate to family size,\u201d Porpino added.\nNorbert Wilson, a professor of agricultural economics and rural sociology at Auburn University who specializes in food pantry research, said pantries can also reduce waste in more straightforward ways, including simply offering clients to choose the food products they prefer rather than being given a box filled with foods they may or may not like.\n\u201cHaving choice will allow clients to select products that are most likely to be consumed,\u201d Wilson told HuffPost.\nThere are challenges there, however. Some pantries are hesitant to embrace a client choice model because they fear this would create unequal levels of access to all foods. Further, Wilson noted, pantries are typically run by volunteers who may lack both the time and training needed to pass along information on nutrition, meal planning or food preparation.\nWhile meal planning is key to reducing food waste, other experts have also pointed out that simply educating oneself about what expiration dates on food really mean can make a big impact. In an effort to help consumers do just that, Sen. Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) and Congresswoman Chellie Pingree (D-Maine) introduced legislation last month that would standardize food date labeling.\n---\nJoseph Erbentraut covers promising innovations and challenges in the areas of food and water. In addition, Erbentraut explores the evolving ways Americans are identifying and defining themselves. Follow Erbentraut on Twitter at @robojojo. Tips? Email joseph.erbentraut@huffingtonpost.com.", "title": "The Reason We Waste So Much Food Is Because We Love Our Families Too Much"}