{"url": "http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2016/06/24/lawana-mayfield-north-carolina_n_10671782.html", "date": "2016-06-25", "content": "It\u2019s a watershed year fraught with turmoil for the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) community. Across the American South, queer, trans and gender-nonconforming people are facing wave after wave of legislation that threatens our safety, well-being and very existence.\nFrom \u201cbathroom bills\u201c to ordinances that permit discrimination, this battle is in many ways a backlash to all of the victories our community has seen recently \u2014including last year\u2019s nation-wide legalization of same-sex marriage \u2014 and it serves a multitude of political and social purposes for the religious and political right.\nIn this new series, HuffPost Queer Voices Deputy Editor JamesMichael Nichols, who hails from North Carolina himself, talks to some of the leaders, movers and shakers of the fight for queer and trans liberation in the South about their own personal experiences as activists, the current political and social climate for the LGBT community in these states and the action that we, as a community,\u00a0can take to help. Check out the previous interview with Pamela Raintree.When North Carolina legislators passed anti-queer House Bill 2 earlier this year and Governor Pat McCrory signed it less than 24 hours later, the state invalidated the rights of nearly every minority group in North Carolina. While the conversation has largely been reduced to transgender bathroom rights in the mainstream political arena, everyone from seniors to the disabled to gay people lost the power of anti-discrimination ordinances at the state level.\nCharlotte Councilwoman LaWana Mayfield has been at the forefront of the battle against House Bill 2, alongside many other queer and trans-identifying activists. As the first openly gay council person to serve in Charlotte, and only the second African American woman, Mayfield has a unique intersection of identities that make this particular battle in the South highly personal for her.\nIn wake of the Orlando massacre, fighting for the rights of our lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender brothers, sisters and siblings in the American South at a legislative level is more important than ever. In this interview with The Huffington Post, Mayfield reflects on the current social and political climate for queer people in the South, what she thinks is the most effective way to fight back against HB2 and the unique way that institutionalized homophobia and and racism affect queer people of color in the South.\nThe Huffington Post: I would love if you could tell me a bit about your story \u2013 when is the first moment that you felt like you became an activist and were compelled to be involved in this line of work?\nLaWana Mayfield: I think it really started when I was about 19-years-old when I saw an article in the paper where they needed third shift volunteers to work the suicide hotline in Charlotte. I wasn\u2019t even out then \u2013 I\u2019m a late bloomer. 25 was when I started thinking, \u201cHey I\u2019ve had some great relationships but they haven\u2019t really worked out, what\u2019s the disconnect here?\u201d So when I was 19 I was volunteering and I\u2019ve done a lot of community work on issues of equity and equality across the board \u2013 immigration reform, alternatives to incarceration, reducing recidivism and volunteering and working on a number of LBGT-related boards and commissions. I became an activist by accident \u2013 I\u2019m an accidental activist.\nAnd you\u2019re in your third term now, correct?\nCorrect, I was first elected in 2011 and became Charlotte\u2019s first open LGBT elected official.That\u2019s amazing. What does it mean for you? Does that make what is happening across the South more personal for you?\nDefinitely, because when I was elected in 2011 at that time I was also only the second African American female to ever be elected to City Council and wearing both hats comes with great responsibility.\nTo be at the forefront of that conversation and to have the opportunity, I definitely recognize the importance of the community -- the young people and those of us that are not so young -- to know that there are no barriers except the barriers that you create for yourself.\nAs someone who is at ground zero with everything that is going on with House Bill 2, what do you think is something people might be missing about what is going on in North Carolina? Do you think that people might have the wrong impression about what is happening? Could the media be doing a better or different job about the ongoing story?\nI honestly think that the media can do a better job because the conversation was reduced to bathrooms -- not looking at how what Charlotte passed as an fully-inclusive nondiscrimination ordinance that wasn\u2019t groundbreaking or earth-shattering. We followed the policies that our friends at other cities had already passed, including one of our biggest competitors, Columbia, South Carolina, of all places. So when you look at the impact of what HB2 did, it took away the rights of everyone if you\u2019re a minority, whether that\u2019s African American, Asian, Pacific Islander, Latino, female, a senior, if you have a disability \u2013 everybody\u2019s rights were taken away when it comes to filing a discrimination case to at least be heard on a state level. Also they took away the ability for us to have a substantial conversation regarding pay equity for municipalities. So it\u2019s interesting that under the guise of protecting women and children -- of which there was no language of enforcement included -- they took away the rights of more than 90 percent of the population.It\u2019s scary. How do you feel about the controversy over whether musical acts or sports tournaments or businesses should boycott North Carolina or continue to visit? What do you think is the appropriate course of action?\nI really don\u2019t agree with the idea of boycotting [these events]. For me, the greater impact is for you to come and support local organizations. I know there\u2019s a lot of great work that happens with national organizations, but what I\u2019m seeing more so is a fundraising opportunity for all the groups like Equality NC and HRC International. We really need to think about the impact on the people\u2019s lives that we\u2019re talking about. So, to me, you come. You create jobs. You create protections for your employees and you get involved and donate to global organizations that are doing the good work. Boycotting is not the answer because you\u2019re basically letting the other side win by giving them the opportunity to say, well, we don\u2019t want those progressive companies here anyways! No \u2013 we do want your progressive companies to come, along with your protections of your employees.\nSo, obviously queer people have experienced prejudice in the South for many, many years. Why do you think legislators have chosen this particular moment and these particular issues in order to spring such a robust and relentless attack against LGBT people in the South?\nI think [it\u2019s largely] because of what we\u2019re hearing on the national stage from a presidential candidate/nominee [Trump] who goes to the heart of people\u2019s fear and goes to the core of racism and bigotry. It\u2019s always been there but there\u2019s never been more of a climate for people to share their feelings and say whatever loud thing that they want to say then what we\u2019ve seen in the last year and a half. I mean, let\u2019s have a real conversation -- the moment President Obama was elected into office in 2008 you saw a turn across our nation with how people interacted. You saw it on social media where people you work with, neighbors, people you thought were friends will make comments that they would never have made any other time for the months or years that you\u2019ve known them. And you now see a completely different level of hatred that you just never saw before because it\u2019s as if it\u2019s hunting season and people can do or say whatever they want.\nIn North Carolina I think the bigger conversation is rural vs. urban. You look at who are the state representatives that wrote and pushed this legislation forward -- they were mostly from rural towns. The City of Charlotte is not competing with the rural towns -- we\u2019re competing with other countries, we\u2019re competing internationally, We\u2019re competing with Texas, Seattle and other places like that.What challenges for LGBT people in the South do you think are unique or different than the rest of the country?\nWell, it\u2019s the Bible belt. But the reality is that you should not be creating legislation based on your religious beliefs because this country was made of immigrants and it was made up of people escaping religious persecution. We seem to have forgotten that because it keeps being spoken and said through sound bites and clips that we\u2019re this Christian nation -- no we\u2019re not! We\u2019re a nation, when you really think about it, of Protestants! But in the Bible Belt of the South, the hypocrisy is definitely there as far as let\u2019s not talk about sex, let\u2019s control women\u2019s ability to control their own bodies. Let\u2019s reduce their options of birth control \u2013 we want to protect you women, but let\u2019s make sure men have Viagra on insurance. There\u2019s that mentality of men know what\u2019s best for all people \u2013 especially what\u2019s best for women.\nYes, that seems to be the overarching mentality and horrible.\u00a0How does this fight for equality differ in communities of color, if you think it does, and how does the larger queer community ensure that it\u2019s taking specific issues and needs within those communities to heart.\nThat\u2019s a very good question that people aren\u2019t having real dialogue about. When you look at last year, there was an article about how the HRC Corporate Equality Index.\u00a0When you don\u2019t see leadership that is not white male in a lot of these LGBT corporate leadership roles -- even when you talk about this whole debate that\u2019s happening across North Carolina with HB2, who are the faces that you see at the forefront of this conversation? At the same time, you go back a few years when Tavis Smiley did his State of Black America, African American LGBT people were not included in that conversation -- as if we don\u2019t exist! So, we don\u2019t exist in heterosexual black world, but we also don\u2019t exist in the LGBT community until there is a need for a photo op to show the picture of how diverse the group is. Who are the African Americans, who are the Latinos, who are the Asian Pacific Islanders we can find to be in this photo op. And yet when it is time to have a voice in the conversation, you don\u2019t see us! We have to change that dialogue. It\u2019s very difficult as an African American female to see groups talk about \u201cthis is a civil rights discussion\u201d when you have nobody that looks like the diversity of the nation or what civil rights look like at the table in a decision-making position. This is an ongoing conversation in communities of color.So how do we combat that? How do we ensure that these voices are being included in the conversation and elevated?\nThe first thing is to open the door. Everything is relational. If you think about the job opportunities, the experience you\u2019ve had, more often than not it\u2019s been based on the relationship you had with someone and they gave you the inside information to say hey, this opportunity is coming up, I think you should go for it. Well, if our personal relationships aren't diverse, who do you think is going to be in that room with those conversations? If you don\u2019t make a conscious effort to identify people who are not like you to be a part of the conversation, it doesn\u2019t change. Everybody loves to throw around the word diversity and inclusion \u2013 and those are buzz words. But let\u2019s look at equity and equality \u2013 that\u2019s a completely different definition. When you look at the impact of equity and see who is at the table, what resources are they being provided in order to be successful?Thank you for saying that. What do you think the new generation of LGBT activists can learn from the generations before?\nOne, I think they need to be cognizant of the fact that there is a past. And this starts just because young people have decided to get involved. So you first need to pay respect to all of those that came before us -- I\u2019m not doing anything new and I\u2019m already old [laughs]. The next generation needs to come on and get started, but you need to pay respect because the only way you can identify what your future is going to look like is to truly know your past and honor that past. So they need to know who Harvey Milk is and what is it that he actually did -- what was that work about? They need to know who we are, especially people of color. We love to do quotes about Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. but there never would have been any Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. if Bayard Rustin wasn\u2019t at the table! And Dr. King\u2019s leadership threw him under the bus! He would have never had an in with the workers union if it were not for Bayard Rustin. And a lot of people don\u2019t even know who he is! So you need to know your history, and that means we in the LGBT community need to do a better job of questioning, what\u2019s the timeline? Do we know our own history? Who is the one that\u2019s taking these notes and compiling this information to make it easy to find and say, this is the history of the LGBT movement?\nLooking towards the future, what does an American South where LGBT people are liberated and free look like to you?\nIt looks like us showing up 100 percent in our authenticity. That means the LGBT community being on local boards and commissions, having a voice in the room, those business owners being comfortable enough to identify themselves as openly LGBT and it not affect their financial bottom line. It looks like never see a mass shooting of people living their lives as we saw in Orlando at Pulse nightclub, a place of safety where all people come together regardless of how they identify. Teachers are able to be out and be better teachers because they are not having to hide a part of themselves, to be able to openly go shopping for housing opportunities whether it\u2019s to rent or to purchase without the fear of them identifying you as being in a same-sex relationship and denying you access.\u00a0\nIt looks to me like people being protected in their jobs and in their communities.\nStay tuned to HuffPost Queer Voices for more in this series talking to\u00a0some of the leaders, movers and shakers of the fight for queer and trans liberation in the South. Missed the last feature with Pamela Raintree? Head here.", "title": "The First Openly Gay Charlotte City Councilwoman Opens Up About HB2"}