{"url": "http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2016/06/15/utah-spencer-cox-orlando-speech_n_10485934.html", "date": "2016-06-15", "content": "As numerous politicians have done since Sunday's tragic shooting at a gay club in Orlando, Florida, Lt. Gov. Spencer Cox of Utah took the stage at a vigil Monday night in Salt Lake City.\nUnlike so many other politicians who offered up vague and ultimately meaningless platitudes, Cox gave an address that was heartfelt, honest and ultimately quite moving.\n\"I'm white, I'm Mormon, I'm straight and I love the people that died,\" he said in\u00a0summing his thoughts up\u00a0for local station Fox 13.\nMore than 1,000 people gathered for Monday's vigil, according to Fox 13.\u00a0Utah's capital city elected its first openly gay mayor\u00a0last November.\nWatch a video of Cox's speech above or read the text below, as transcribed by KSL.com:\n\nLadies and Gentlemen,\nThank you for being here tonight on this very solemn and somber occasion. I begin with an admission and an apology. First, I recognize fully that I am a balding, youngish middle-aged, straight, white, male, Republican politician ... with all of the expectations and privileges that come with those labels. I am probably not who you expected to hear from today.\nI\u2019m here because yesterday morning, 49 Americans were brutally murdered. And it made me sad. And it made me angry. And it made me confused. I\u2019m here because those 49 people were gay. I\u2019m here because it shouldn\u2019t matter. But I\u2019m here because it does. I am not here to tell you that I know exactly what you are going through. I am not here to tell you that I feel your pain. I don\u2019t pretend to know the depths of what you are feeling right now. But I do know what it feels like to be scared. And I do know what it feels like to be sad. And I do know what it feels like to be rejected. And, more importantly, I know what it feels like to be loved.\nI grew up in a small town and went to a small rural high school. There were some kids in my class that were different. Sometimes I wasn\u2019t kind to them. I didn\u2019t know it at the time, but I know now that they were gay. I will forever regret not treating them with the kindness, dignity and respect \u2014 the love \u2014 that they deserved. For that, I sincerely and humbly apologize.\nOver the intervening years, my heart has changed. It has changed because of you. It has changed because I have gotten to know many of you. You have been patient with me. You helped me learn the right letters of the alphabet in the right order even though you keep adding new ones. You have been kind to me. Jim Dabakis even told me I dressed nice once, even though I know he was lying. You have treated me with the kindness, dignity and respect \u2014 the love \u2014 that I very often did not\u00a0deserve. And it has made me love you.\nBut now we are here. We are here because 49 beautiful, amazing people are gone. These are not just statistics. These were individuals. These are human beings. They each have a story. They each had dreams, goals, talents, friends, family. They are you and they are me. And one night they went out to relax, to laugh, to connect, to forget, to remember. And in a few minutes of chaos and terror, they were gone.\nI believe that we can all agree we have come a long way as a society when it comes to our acceptance and understanding of the LGBTQ community (did I get that right?). However, there has been something about this tragedy that has very much troubled me. I believe that there is a question, two questions actually, that each of us needs to ask ourselves in our heart of hearts. And I am speaking now to the straight community. How did you feel when you heard that 49 people had been gunned down by a self-proclaimed terrorist? That\u2019s the easy question. Here is the hard one: Did that feeling change when you found out the shooting was at a gay bar at 2 a.m. in the morning? If that feeling changed, then we are doing something wrong.\nSo now we find ourselves at a crossroads. A crossroads of hate and terror. How do we respond? How do you respond? Do we lash out with anger, hate and mistrust? Or do we, as Lincoln begged, appeal to the \u201cbetter angels of our nature\"?\nUsually when tragedy occurs, we see our nation come together. I was saddened yesterday to see far too many retreating to their over-worn policy corners and demagoguery. Let me be clear -- there are no simple policy answers to this tragedy. Beware of anyone who tells you that they have the easy solution. It doesn\u2019t exist. And I can assure you this \u2014 that calling people idiots, communists, fascists or bigots on Facebook is not going to change any hearts or minds. Today we need fewer Republicans and fewer Democrats. Today we need more Americans.\nBut just because an easy solution doesn\u2019t exist doesn\u2019t mean we shouldn\u2019t try. The greatest generations in the history of the world were never innately great. They became great because of how they responded in the face of evil. Their humanity is measured by their response to hate and terror.\nI truly believe that this is the defining issue of our generation. Can we be brave? Can we be strong? Can we be kind and, perhaps, even happy in the face of atrocious acts of hate and terrorism? Do we find a way to unite? Or do these atrocities further corrode and divide our torn nation? Can we, the citizens of the great state of Utah, lead the nation with love in the face of adversity? Can we\u00a0become a greatest generation?\nI promise we can. But I also promise it will never happen if we leave it to the politicians. Ultimately, there is only one way for us to come together. It must happen at a personal level. We must learn to truly love one another.\nThe Prophet Muhammad is reported to have said, \u201cYou will not enter paradise until you believe, and you will not believe until you love one another.\u201d\nJesus said, \u201cLove your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you and persecute you.\u201d\nNow, you know a little something about hate. And you know a little something about persecution. But you also know something about loving, blessing and doing good. What our country needs more than ever is less politics and more kindness. If nothing else, as we can see here tonight, this tragedy has the potential to bring us closer than ever before.\nAnd so may we leave today with a resolve to be a little kinder. May we try to listen more and talk less. May we forgive someone that has wronged us. And perhaps, most importantly, try to love someone that is different than us. For my straight friends, might I suggest starting with someone who is gay?\nI leave you with the words of Lyndon B. Johnson. They were spoken at another very sad time in our history, the death of President John F. Kennedy. He said this:\n\u201cOur enemies have always made the same mistake. In my lifetime \u2014 in depression and in war \u2014 they have awaited our defeat. Each time, from the secret places of the American heart, came forth the faith they could not see or that they could not even imagine. It brought us victory. And it will again. For this is what America is all about.\u201d\nOn behalf of the 3 million people of the state of Utah, we are Orlando. We love you. And I love you.\n\nCox's mention of Jim Dabakis, the kindly commenter on his attire, presumably refers to the Utah state senator and co-founder of the Utah Pride Center and Equality Utah.\nHere's another way to help:", "title": "Self-Described 'Straight, White, Male, Republican Politician' Gives Touching Orlando Tribute"}